
Tableau is an application that performs data visualization form data. I wanted to test if I could use the surrounding framework to add some level of visual analytics to my nextjs applications. 

To do this, we're going to use react-chartjs-2, Tableau Public and the Tableau API toolset. The latter will give us the parsed or segmented data, which we can then use with react-chartjs-2 to replicate the visulizations. I've been working on a component that will conditionally implement various options for reworking the view. Tableau is a highly efficient, robust and controlled enviroment for creating visual analytics, however, it lacks in two aspects. First, I think it lack the controlability and "agent"-ability of more programmic frameworks such as next or even server-based systems. Second, if we want to have some sort of automated contoll over how a system can be interacted with through visualizations, then we need to have a more integrated environment than what tableau is currently providing as a standalone solution. 

I am not suggesting that this combination is a great one, but I want to make this, simply because it peaked my curiosity, and because I can. I think of it as a good waste of time. 

In order to be able to integrate a tableau worksheet with our frontend, we have to post the sheet somewhere for us to retrieve. We could post it into a the cloud workflow and connect that into our site, but here we stumble upon the bottleneck of having to authorize our account in order to see the graphics on our page, which is not a very user-centered approach. A better way would be to post the worksheet to a tableau's public platform, and fetch it from there, however, then we stumple upon the problem of us having very little control over both the endpoint visualization, as well as the values that are being displayed. This is exactly where it is so nice to have the tableau API available. With this api, we're able to get the data that is attached to the tableau public page, and are therefore able to replicate this through frontend visualization tools such as reach-chartjs-2. 

We still have a problem though. We do not know from the data what kind of visualization we're actually working with. I think there are two ways to acheive this to a reliable level. First we can hardcode it into our worksheet name, meaning that as we call a datasheet from our API call, we already specify the chart, and how we want our visualization to work. A second, and maybe a better way would be to have the type visualization already set into the datasheet. If we do this, we could potentially update a public sheet, and continually deplot updated versions of spreadsheets into our application. Now this level of integration requires a much more indepth integration of tableau functionality into the tableau - reach-chartjs-2 component. Graph type, frame, markers, and other interactions could be added into options and conditions for the component.

The benefits of a system like this is that we could give an administrator the ability to potentially set automated interactions through the data, and decide tactics to employ in real time, and with the power of the browser. A larger system could then include real time data and higher level trend data, and not only that. We can use the whole of tableau public's open ecosystem into our application. That is very chill.

What about sensitive business data? Well. One potential avenue is to parse the data through a facade for the API call. This would also enable us to not use the API but instead directly parse the data in our application. Here we could fetch data from something like firebase or AWS. Thus we acheive tableau-like features without actually relying on tableau for visualizations. At the same time, I think using Tableau Server really solves this, although I haven't actually tried this, as I am on the student version, which doesn't have the Tableau Server features available. 